[ Man ]
See, this—
This can’t be the place.
Why would they leave a clue
for a treasure hunt here?
Denise hired a professional
to plan the game.
They know what they’re doing.
Why couldn’t Denise and Joel
just have a dinner party?
Watch out for that step. lt’s—
See?
- Told you.
— Hey. Help me
get some light down here.
[ Boards Breaking ]
Okay, nothing down there.
Let’s go.
Seriously?
Oh! This is awesome.
Get a picture.
Smells gross.
Man up!
Do you want
Ryan and Kristy to win?
Dig.
[ Groans ]
Wait.
l— I think
I found something.
Feels like a bottle.
lt’ll have
the next clue inside.
Got to admit,
winning would be nice.
[ Gasps ]
[Grunts]
[ Man ]
I hate Ryan and Kristy!
[ Booth Whispering ]
Hey, I’m home.
She’s sleeping.
Shh. Look at this, huh?
We have an artist.
[ Gasps ]
This is beautiful.
Yeah.
It’s truly exceptional.
There are
flashes of abstract
expressionism in this.
Huh?
Abstract
expressionism.
You know, like
Wassily Kandinsky
or Friedel Dzubas.
There’s a real sweep
to these strokes.
Right, right.
Okay, well, the school director,
she wants to, uh, bring us in
and talk to us.
So she recognizes
Christine’s talent too?
Uh, no.
Christine, she, uh—
She bit a kid.
What?
No, that—that’s impossible.
It’s no big deal.
I mean, kids bite.
No. Not Christine.
She’s not just any kid.
She’s my daughter,
and they made a mistake.
Bones, just relax.
I mean, the school director,
she felt bad.
She was apologizing
for bringing it up.
Well, then why did she?
Well, because, you know,
a kid got bit. That’s why.
Which kid?
[Sighs]
[Cell Phones Ringing]
Thank God.
Brennan.
Booth.
— Where is it?
— Text me the address.
Okay, we’ll be right there.
We got a body.
I know.
I’ll call Max to watch her.
Which kid?
[Sighs]
Emma. One of the Emmas.
Emma R. or Emma C.?
Emma C.
Figures. She cries when they sing
lls y Bits y Spider.
[Chattering ]
[Shutter Clicking ]
[ Booth ]
Wow!
Look at those ’shrooms!
Yeah. Spectacular, right?
Ganoderma, enok/lake,
some beautiful bunapi-shimeji,
and just about the cutest
little Hypho/oma
I’ve ever seen.
— Okay. Great.
Let’s move it along.
— The frontal eminence...
and the orbital margins indicate
the victim was female, Caucasian.
Cranial suturing suggests
she was in her mid—20s.
All right, any evidence
ofsexualassauﬂ?
Not that I can see.
Her pants are still on.
I didn’t think mushrooms
grew on bodies.
Yeah, they don’t.
They are growing through it
and around it.
Spores must have been laying
dormant underground.
Fluid from the victim
could have seeped out
and reactivated them.
- What proof do they have?
- Huh?
- Hard proof.
- Hard proof?
I— I don’t know.
The teacher heard a scream,
she turned around...
and saw Christine
standing next to C.,
and she had a bite mark on her.
Not about the case, I’m guessing?
— It could have been
another child who ran away.
— Let’s talk about this later.
- Has Michael Vincent
ever bit anyone?
— [ Hodgins ] Yeah, sure.
I mean, th—there’s
nothing weird about that.
lt’s average behavior.
[ Brennan ]
Average.
Exactly.
Christine didn’t do this.
The teacher was mistaken.
[ Booth ] There was no reports
of a kidnapping or an abduction
in the area,
so how long has mushroom woman
been down here, you think?
Well, based on
the size of the stems,
I’d say somewhere
between 20 and 30 days.
Hey, she could be homeless.
Her teeth are pristine.
She doesn’t have
a single filling.
Look at her fingernails.
[ Booth ]
Wow, that’s a manicure.
It’s a very good manicure.
She took very good
care of herself.
- Oh.
— [ Saroyan ] Can I see that?
Yeah.
[ Saroyan ]
These shoes
are from Ava Lang.
— Beautiful, incredible leather.
— Sounds very expensive.
So, why did a woman who could
afford shoes like this...
end up in one of the worst
neighborhoods in DC...
with mushrooms
growing out of her?
These bunapi—shimejis
are full of antioxidants.
Yeah, mushrooms
grown locally
on corpses.
Are you two looking for
some kind of side business?
[Angela] Oh, no.
Hey, I accept not
being rich rich,
but I wouldn’t mind being a little richer
than we are right now.
We’re living off our salaries.
It’s what people do.
Well, happiness isn’t tied
to how much money you make.
Thank you, Opie.
But I’d rather not have
Michael Vincent...
eating squirrel gizzards
and hillbilly broth.
We had to mortgage the house...
to pay off a few final debts...
after the collapse of the Cantilever Group.
No,
he’s freaking out.
Yep. Totally.
Okay. Finished with the photos?
Right.
Let’s rattle them bones.
[Motor Whirs, Clanking]
The victim’s clothing suggests
she had expensive tastes.
I need a psychologist
for that?
The wear on her shoes
indicates they didn’t fit well.
Her clothes were altered at home.
You know what?
You’re watching way
too much Project Runway.
It was important
for her to look good.
She was living beyond her means.
Maybe a social climber?
How’s that gonna help me
catch her murderer?
She showed a false front
to the world.
It was a lie, if you will.
Enough with the clothes,
all right?
Okay.
Do you have anything else?
Um, yeah.
The victim being buried facedown.
That’s significant.
How so?
When the victim’s turned away,
the killer avoids
a personal connection,
which means the killer
probably knew the victim.
That’s good. You know what?
I can work with that.
Thank you.
Sweets, biting is normal, right?
Lab didn’t mention anything
about biting.
- [ Sighs ]
- Did— Did you bite someone?
No.
Christine bit someone.
Oh.
Oh, yeah. Her age?
Totally normal.
I mean, the average child—
Don’t say
“average.”
Bones hears you say “average,”
it’s bad.
Just... don’t say “average,”
okay?
Okay. Don’t.
[ Footsteps Approaching ]
I found hairline fractures
on the occipital.
Did the victim die from
a blow to the head?
No.
The injury was enough to
disorient the victim,
maybe even lose consciousness,
but wouldn’t be cause of death.
I’ve got epithelial cells
from under her fingernails.
I’ll run the DNA.
If we’re lucky, she fought
with her killer.
Oh, well,
multiple fractures on the distal
and medial phalanges...
as well as the metatarsals could
be indicative of a fight, yes.
— Some of this is not skin.
— What is it?
Not sure.
lt’s fibrous. I’ll get Hodgins
to identify it.
Hey. I ran a facial reconstruction
through Missing Persons,
and I found a possible match.
Rebecca Pearce,
25 years old,
reported missing
by Trudy Morris.
Judge Trudy?
I’m not familiar
with Judge Trudy.
— What circuit is she on?
— CIT/Zens Court.
Does that have something to do
with the French Revolution?
[Saroyan ] No.
Judge Trudy has a TV show where
she judges “small claims” cases.
Why?
[Angela ] Because
it’s great drama.
People just fight over
the silliest little things.
You should see the way
that they yell and scream
at each other.
— Total guilty pleasure.
— Like watching a train wreck.
Train wrecks are not pleasurable.
No wonder you feel guilty.
l have a huge bone
to pick with you.
Check out this
Synthesiomy/a nud/Lsela.
I’m serious.
l’m steaming.
The size of the larvae,
I can narrow time of death...
to somewhere
between 20 and 23 days.
Thurston, please stop ignoring me.
[ Sighs ]
Did you finish this?
There’s still a bit left.
Yes. It was delicious.
This was my last bottle
ofhotsauce!
I didn’t know it was yours.
Well, if you wanted me to believe you,
you should have removed the Post—it note.
[ Scoffs ]
Okay, all right.
In my defense,
it’s a communal fridge.
I’ll buy you a new one.
No, you don’t understand.
This was my granny’s last bottle
of special sauce.
Well, call her up
and tell her to,
you know—
I can’t,
because she’s dead!
[Sighs]
What have you learned
about Emma?
Does she have a history
of false reporting?
Oh, yeah.
Numerous occasions,
police responded to reports
of a monster under the bed,
but no monster
was ever found.
I know that that’s amusing,
but I don’t feel like laughing.
Bones, come on. Kids bite.
They grow out of it.
Really, just let it go.
I would love to let it go.
Good. Let it go.
Which is why I intend
to challenge...
the spurious circumstantial evidence
with empirical data.
You’re kidding.
Not kidding.
Hearsay, circumstantial
and a possibly biased witness.
Look, I’m just saying,
if Christine did it,
I’m sure she won’t do it again.
If she did it
the first time.
Which, probably,
you know, she didn’t.
Right.
Your Honor,
if you’ll just
let me finish.
Let you fin—
I don’t let you finish!
You let me finish!
Nowhere on this lease
does it say your tenant
cannot have a pet goldfish.
Well, that is just
one woman’s opinion.
That is not one woman’s opinion.
That is my ruling.
And let’s get something
straight, pal.
No one comes into my courtroom
and tells me how to interpret the law.
I love
this freak show.
No.
On the contrary. It’s about
the stern but effective
administration ofjustice.
There has been
a long tradition
of trial watching.
Salem Witch Trials,
the Nuremberg Trials.
This show’s just
a logical progression.
Logical? Are you watching
the same trial I’m watching?
They’re talking about goldfish.
[Gavel Bangs]
Who is talking
when I’m talking?
I’m sorry, Your Honor.
No, l was just explaining
to my partner...
that while these proceedings
may be unconventional,
they are by no means
a freak show.
Who is this woman, and why
is she interrupting my courtroom?
l-l have no idea,
Your Honor.
— l’m Dr. Temperance Brennan.
— Bailiff Griff, eject her now.
[ Booth ]
Uh, you can’t do that.
No, this isn’t even
a real courtroom.
There’s no ceiling.
— Don’t even try it, pal.
— Look, we can either do this
easy, or we can do it hard.
You’re not gonna do it at all.
Okay? F.B.|. Special Agent Booth.
— This here is my partner.
— Dr. Temperance Brennan.
We already heard that, Bones.
We’re here to ask you
a few questions about a murder.
[No Audible Dialogue]
Rebecca was murdered?
Why? By whom?
That’s what we’re here
to find out.
You reported her missing.
H was worried.
She didn’t show up for work.
She didn’t call.
Rebecca never missed a day.
When was the last time
you saw her?
[ Door Opens ]
Is this gonna take much longer?
The judge needs to be in makeup.
Rebecca...
was murdered.
Oh.
[Woman]
Uh—
— Oh, my God.
— Yeah, so you better tell makeup
it’s gonna take a while.
Well, what happened?
They don’t know.
When did
I last see Rebecca?
Um—
Looks like the post—show debrief
on the 17th.
— The meeting went until 7:00.
- I’m sorry. Are you her assistant?
No. Jill’s our interim producer
since Rebecca disappeared.
So you replaced Rebecca?
No one could really
replace Rebecca.
Her body was found
in an abandoned building
on L Street.
Do you know
what she was doing there?
Probably recruiting litigants
for the show.
Becca would go anywhere
to get people on the show—
police stations, the D.M.V.
She’s been camped out
in parking lots waiting for
fender benders to happen.
She was committed.
The night she went missing,
where were you?
[Trudy] Home.
Alone.
Just being truthful.
l was here.
I had 20 hours of video
to get through.
Alone, I assume?
I liked Rebecca.
In case both of you
are innocent,
was Rebecca seeing
anyone romantically?
Not since Griff.
[ Booth ]
The bailiff.
Griff the bailiff and your producer
were having a relationship?
They broke up last year.
But they got along fine.
They’re both
professionals.
[ Brennan] One more question.
If someone was accused
of biting,
wouldn’t you demand solid proof
for a conviction?
Really?
I would like her answer.
[ Device Beeps ]
Finn!
l have got the results!
The fiber from
the victim’s fingernail?
What? No. No, no, no.
I’m still working on that.
No.|have
a molecular breakdown of
your grandma’s secret sauce.
Oh, forget it.
I’ve moved on.
No, you haven’t.
You’re still pissed, and
I don’t blame you, all right?
That stuff is awesome.
Yeah. My grandmother used
to put it on my catfish.
Oh, you’re—
You’re killing me here.
I’m not gonna
let that hot sauce die.
Now look at this.
I took a swab of the bottle,
and I ran it through
the mass spec, right?
Now, I almost
got everything, okay?
We’ve got red
and yellow peppers, okay?
Cayenne, tomatoes,
of course, garlic—
— Hodgins—
- Onions, cumin, salt,
brown sugar, vinegar—
There’s just one compound
I cannot identify.
l was hoping you’d know
what it was.
Sure.
It’s the one thing
yoquneverﬁnd.
I’ve already got a portion
of the molecular chain.
Love. It’s love, Hodgins.
That’s not gonna show up
on your mass spec.
Come on. Let it go.
No. Finn—
Come on, hey.
l-l’m one compound away.
l-l’m gonna
burn the crap
out of your mouth,
and you
are gonna love it!
Huh?
[ Device Beeps ]
What’s that about?
[ Griff]
We met when the show started.
Trudy didn’t want us
to date each other,
but I guess Rebecca
and l were so in love...
that she didn’t
want to be the Grinch.
How long were you together?
Four years.
Lived together
for the last two, with lris.
lris. That’s interesting.
Not really, Booth.
For hundreds of years,
having multiple partners
was quite acceptable.
Oh, no, no, no.
lris is a dog.
Uh, she’s a leopard hound
that we rescued.
Never mind.
So, what happened?
Uh, not much.
We saw lris in a shelter,
and both of us thought
she was really—
No, no, not—
Not with the dog, lris.
With you and Rebecca.
Why’d you guys split?
Oh, well, herjob.
I remember asking her
if it was worth it.
I mean, she was always dealing
with lunatics.
I told her
one of them could snap.
Did anyone
ever threaten her?
Oh, yeah, every day.
Half the people who lost
blamed her,
because she got ’em all fired up
before they went on.
But she wasn’t bothered?
Oh, she loved it.
Then after Trudy promoted her
to be producer,
nothing else mattered.
The only time I had
a conversation with her
was on set.
She stopped
seeing friends and family.
Is that why
you sued her for palimony?
Hey, I supported Rebecca
when she was carrying coffee.
By the time we split,
her salary was triple mine.
You sound bitter.
As long as I got my check
every month, I was happy.
Problem is, now she’s gone,
they’re gonna stop.
So from where I stand,
Rebecca wasn’t
the only victim here.
/’m mad!
/ had e ve/y rig/7!
to burn his car!
it seems like it [0 me.
/ would’ve liked [0
ha ve burned it
With him in ii/
That’s ii!
That is the anger that
/ want to see in there!
You’re not gonna Win
if you don ’1‘ get mad.
How long have
you been watching this?
Three hours.
Three hours of raw footage
of people screaming
at each other.
The bailiff even told Booth
that these contestants
could be pretty nuts.
I can see that.
One guy went ballistic
on his friend
for not returning a magazine.
And then he threatened
to kill him.
Well, that’s good.
Um, not for the friend,
but for our case.
He has an alibi.
Rebecca was the one
who was really pushing it.
She went out of her way
to push buttons
on these crazies.
Maybe that was part of herjob
to make the show
more interesting.
Well, the word
l was going for
was pathetic.
The only one so far
without an alibi
is this one.
He said he was using the money
for an engagement ring!
[ Rebecca /
So he lied!
Now you go in there...
and you fight
for what you know is right,
and you ’// win.
You think so .7
Hell, yeah/
Are you a doormat
or are you a fighter?
A fighter!
Now, you go in there,
and you get some justice.
- [ Screams /
- [ Ob/ect Shatters /
Wow.
[Angela ]
Yeah.
Then she lost the case
and had to be removed
from the studio by Security.
She blamed Rebecca
for losing the case.
You set me up!
You’re a dead perra!
[ Shouts in Spanish /
Now, this was
the day before
Rebecca disappeared,
and this woman lives two blocks
from where Rebecca’s body
was found.
Okay.
Sure, I got mad.
She said I would win.
The show paid you more
for appearing than it would’ve
if you won the case.
It was the principle of the thing.
Ain’t you got no morals?
Hey, you were betrayed
by your fiance.
Money couldn’t heal that.
You wanted revenge.
Yeah.
He gets it. Revenge—
That makes things right.
Seems like
you got a lot of revenge
in the past. Huh?
Let’s take a look, huh?
Assault, breaking and entering.
Oh, another assault.
Look at this one,
my favorite.
— First degree murder.
- That was dismissed.
You seem to feel
that anger’s a good
solution to your problems,
which I totally
understand.
Yeah?
Yeah. Sure. The release of
adrenaline and noradrenaline
in your system...
causes you to feel optimistic...
that your impulses
are causing you to make, uh,
reasonable risk assessments.
It’s a common
correspondence bias.
Are you screwing with me?
No, I’m simply pointing out
that your lack of self—control...
can cause you
to make extremely
poor decisions.
— You said you were on my side.
- No, he said he understood
why you go psycho.
- I wouldn’t use that word—
— I know. That’s why I’m here.
Okay, look, I caused a scene.
They threw me out.
Why they got to
bring it up again now?
Becca Pearce was found
murdered two blocks
from your home.
She was killed right after
you appeared on her show.
You just hauled me in here
’cause I live in
a crap neighborhood...
and maybe ain’t that smart,
but I got brains.
I ain’t gonna make this easy.
I got nothing more to say.
[ Sweets Sighs ]
See how calm I could be?
Fractures to the metatarsals
and phalanges.
Which suggests
that the victim
was defending herself.
Fracturing
to the occipital.
Right.
[ Finn ]
Blunt—force trauma,
but wasn’t enough to kill.
But would certainly be enough to
daze the victim so the assailant
could gain control over her.
Right. And we also know that
the underside of her fingernails
contained her own skin cells,
which would indicate
that she was bound...
and that she tried to
claw at her restraints.
None of which gives us
cause of death.
Ma’am, ifl could speak?
You are.
Of course.
Uh, I heard about
your little girl,
and ljust wanted to say
that there’s nothing special
about biting.
My mama said I used to
chew on folks like a cannibal
at Thanksgiving dinner.
[ Chuckles ]
And I turned out okay.
You served time in
a juvenile correction facility
for stabbing your stepfather.
Well, | stabbed him
in self—defense.
l— I went to juvie for theft
and malicious mischief.
Yeah, that doesn’t sound good.
All I’m saying is that
biting is, you know,
pretty average behavior.
And since my daughter
is not average,
l’ll prove that
she’s being unfairly maligned.
Did you see this,
Mr. Abernathy?
Uh, yes. That’s an antemortem injury
to the right zygomatic.
Blunt force consistent
with a violent blow.
Degree of remodeling indicates
that the injuries occurred
approximately three months ago.
Whoever murdered
Rebecca Pearce...
might have just been finishing
what they started
three months ago.
[ Booth ]
So, Pabla Sepulveda’s
whole family is saying...
that she was with them
the night of the murder.
And you believe them?
I believe it was enough
for her lawyer
to get her released.
Right, but the techs
are still seeing if there’s
anything at the crime scene...
that ties her
to the murder?
Yeah.
But till then,
I got another Icon
for you to look at.
Gordie Rand.
Rebecca and he met through
an online dating service.
He looks 12.
Yeah, he’s 22.
Lied on his profile
and put up a fake picture.
They only met once...
for coffee.
But, look, seems Gordie
didn’t understand the word no.
Oh, she filed a restraining order
against him.
Right, look at the date
of the restraining order.
It was three months ago.
That’s around the time
Dr. Brennan said Rebecca
was hit in the face.
Right. Now, look at
the admitting doctor’s note
for cause of injury.
[ Sweets ]
“Accidental fall in home.”
So here’s where
Mr. Shrinky comes into play.
lf Gordon Rand attacked her,
why didn’t Rebecca report him?
Uh, fear?
She probably thought that
by reporting him,
she would incite him
and make matters worse.
She had a restraining order.
One call, and the cops would
have picked him up.
Yeah, but she knew
the justice system.
She knew that it didn’t always work.
So her survival skills kicked in.
Was there any additional contact
after this, uh, incident?
Yeah. He sent her these
a week before she disappeared.
That’s... creepy.
So, what can you tell me
about Rebecca Pearce?
Uh, nothing to tell.
Things got complicated,
so I broke it off.
Did they get complicated around
the time that you started making
naked videos of her?
She was totally into it, man.
She was playing to the camera.
You’re delusional.
You know what?
You are a stalker.
You delude yourself into thinking
that there’s a real relationship.
No.
Then it finally sinks in after hundreds
of phone calls and letters.
Romance is a dance—
You move forward,
they move back and vice versa.
A dance? Really? Okay.
Give me one example when she
moved forward to you, just once.
It’s a— It’s a subtle thing, man.
What are these?
Love tokens?
Yeah.
She liked
the Halloween movies.
It was on her profile.
So if you guys were
so right for each other,
why’d she take out
a restraining order
against you?
Well, all respect to Rebecca,
that’s when she took it too far.
And then you smacked her
in the face.
I would never do that.
I loved her.
And I followed every rule
of that order.
Where were you
on the 17th?
l was at—at home, I think.
You think?
Do you have someone who
can back up your story?
My mom.
Your mom?
You live with your mom?
I bet Rebecca
found that hot.
I need your help with something,
but it must remain between us.
Yeah. For you, anything.
Christine has been accused
of something based on
the word of a two—year-old...
whose neural connections
haven’t fully formed yet.
I heard.
She bit a kid.
No— Allegedly.
A child was bitten, but—
[ Scoffs ]
there’s no definitive evidence
that it was Christine.
You don’t accuse anyone,
even a child, without proof—
photographs or measurement
of the alleged bite mark.
What do you need?
I need you to access some records
from Christine’s day care.
You want me
to hack their server?
I need you to pull
Emma Carter’s records...
and see if there’s
any visual evidence
of the alleged bite.
You know this is
pretty extreme, right?
Motherhood makes demands
that you can’t ignore.
[Sighs]
Did you identify
the fiber particulate
I found under the victim’s nail?
Copolymer of a BC diamine
and a 12C diacid.
Copolymer?
It’s a synthetic fabric?
Nylon—based velvet
treated with purple dye.
l’ve e-mailed you
the results.
Okay.
[ Saroyan ]
Did you find something?
When I was examining the feet,
lnoﬂced,uh,
perimortem hairline fractures
to the talus, calcaneus
and distal fibula.
Could that result
from the victim
kicking her assailant?
Well, that’s more consistent
with damage by a jump down
onto a hard surface.
But in that case,
we would expect to see
the tibias and fibulas...
pierce directly through
the inferior portion of the feet.
And there are no
compression fractures
to the lumbar vertebrae.
So a jump, but not
from a great height.
Well, maybe she was dropped
from the top of the stairs
to the cellar floor.
Now, that’s a distance
of approximately 10 feet
orjust over three meters.
So not high enough
to kill her, but it sure
would’ve slowed her down.
Yeah.
/ find for the plaintiff
in the full amount of $243.
— You said /’d win, bitch!
— Why didn’t you arrest this man?
Well, because he was in county
on a solicitation charge
the night of the murder.
[ Griff]
All rise.
[ Booth ]
Oh, wow.
Weebles, wobbles and— Ow!
[Audience Snickering /
Wow. Okay, so what
do you think, Bones?
The judge might suffer
from a neuromuscular
disorder.
She’s sloshed!
Drunk.
Oh, that.
Yes.
Who ’s talking in my courtroom .7
[ Booth ]
Oh!
[Audience Laughs /
From the looks of it,
she is a mean drunk.
Who ’s talking
in my courtroom .7
Okay, that definitely looks like
felony assault to me.
[ Scoffs ]
You don’t have a good grasp of
the law, do you, Agent Booth?
Since no charges were filed,
legally, that looks like nothing at all.
Wow.
Ah, pretty cold.
Yeah, I get that way
when I’m falsely
accused of assault.
Rebecca knew it was an accident
and signed documents
to confirm that.
The way you stumbled
and missed the steps—
You had been drinking there,
hadn’t you?
[ Scoffs ]
I had come back from
a business lunch,
probably had some wine.
This line of questioning
is absurd.
— Move on with it.
- This is not your fake
courtroom, Trudy.
I call the shots here.
You’re more than
a social drinker, aren’t you?
I can tell by the way
your hand is shaking.
l have an occasional drink.
Occasional.
Right.
Like you had
the occasional D.U.l.
For me, it was gambling.
For my father,
it was drinking.
I know a problem
when I see one.
[ Chuckles ]
The Trudy you see on TV—
that’s a performance.
Some days I need help
getting there.
Okay. So it must have been
difficult, then,
when Rebecca banned alcohol
from the set.
Nothing was banned
According to
this production letter,
you would’ve lost
the insurance on your show
if you didn’t stop drinking.
- But you’re still drinking.
— Addiction is tough, even
when your career is at stake.
Yourjudgment’s impaired,
you make impulsive
and rash decisions.
Like getting rid of the people
standing between you
and that drink that you need.
I didn’t kill Rebecca.
But you did find someone to
bring your booze to the set, right?
Maybe someone
to get on your good side,
edge out Rebecca.
[ Scoffs ]
I’m not answering
any more questions.
And that’s your right.
But can you see
the headlines now?
“TV’s Judge Trudy Obstructs
Murder Investigation.”
Now, that is bad publicity.
So, these are from
the little girl’s file.
You can see the bite marks.
Excellent.
Now we can
discount the validity
of their allegations,
and I will be able
to submit evidence
to Christine’s day care director.
Here.
What is this?
We’ll need to
compare the injuries
with Christine.
You actually
took an impression
of Christine’s teeth?
Yes. l—l had her
bite into an apple, and then
I constructed the model.
It was actually
quite simple.
- And she loves apples.
- Okay.
[ Brennan ]
Oh. Aha. There is
a laceration here,
in the area where Christine’s tooth
hasn’t yet fully erupted.
Do you concur?
Uh, well, since
the flesh is malleable,
the computer can’t confirm or deny
if Christine did this.
Well, that is absurd.
We can re—create
entire crime scenes,
complete assault
scenarios.
Sorry, sweetie.
The best that I can do
is give you odds.
Okay.
And you’re not
gonna like them.
Why?
What do you mean?
Odds are 78 to 21 that
Christine bit the kid.
Twenty—one percent
plus my knowledge of her.
I am satisfied that
Christine is innocent.
- Really?
— Of course. Thank you.
Oh, are we still on for
Christine and Michael Vincent’s
playdate on Saturday?
Uh, sure, yeah.
Great.
I hope this is important.
I’m trying to find
cause of death.
What’s that smell?
It is catfish, Opie.
Oh. That wasn’t necessary,
Thurston.
But it was.
Come here, sit down.
And this?
This is the hot sauce.
Taste it.
You are gonna love it.
Uh, this is—
[Sighs]
Oh, my God.
- How did you do that?
- Aframomum me/egueta.
It’s more commonly known
as Guinea grain.
lt’s native to
swampy habitats along
the West African coast.
l have no idea
how your granny
got ahold of it, but—
She used to trade with
an herbalist in the woods.
Damn, if you haven’t brought
my granny back from the dead!
[Laughs]
Hey, I told you
I’d find it, right?
And you were right.
The secret ingredient was love.
That’s the only explanation
for Hodgins spending
so much time and—
and effort to do this.
Eat. Go. Eat.
Eat.
Hey, we shouldn’t keep
this stuff a secret.
— I mean, the world would love this.
— Oh, very true, very true.
You should slow down a little bit, Finn.
You don’t want to get a bone
stuck in your throat.
Not from a baby catfish.
— That’s it.
— What?
Cause of death.
Th—Thank you.
You see these micro—fractures
on the transverse processes
of the C4 and 5?
Yes.
Well, they appear to be
consistent with strangulation.
Which is unlikely since
the hyoid bone
remains intact.
Unlikely, yes,
but not impossible.
The victim was
in her mid—20s, yes?
At that age, the hyoid bone
is still very flexible.
If the conditions were right,
she could’ve been strangled
without breaking her hyoid.
The flexibility of the young,
semi—cartilaginous hyoid,
combined with a wide ligature,
could very well have caused
these micro—fractures.
Well done,
Mr. Abernathy.
Well, you should be
thanking my granny.
[ Chuckles ]
Rebecca made it clear
if there was any booze
on set, I’d be fired.
Then Trudy said
if I didn’t figure out a way
to get her some vodka,
she’d fire me too.
So you picked the judge.
It was just a matter of time
before Trudy fired Rebecca.
This job meant a lot to me.
I’d say it worked out
pretty well for you.
The show is still going on.
You got Rebecca’s job.
Sounds like a motive to me.
Rebecca was my mentor.
Oh, right, yeah.
She treated you like crap.
You got paid next to nothing,
and she took all the credit.
That’s how everyone
starts out.
Trudy said that you and Rebecca
used to fight all the time...
because she wouldn’t
give you a promotion.
Sometimes
I have a temper.
I can... get impatient.
That’s all.
I think you ran out of patience.
I think you told her
to go to this abandoned building
to interview this fake guest,
and... you strangled her
with this.
Where—
Where did you get this?
Got a search warrant
for your apartment.
The team at
the Jeffersonian said that
Rebecca was strangled.
We found a fiber
underneath her fingernail.
No.
No, you—you’ve got this
all wrong.
Rebecca lent me this scarf.
That’s—
Oh.
That’s Rebecca’s scarf.
Oh, I didn’t know that.
Thanks for that.
Wow, this is looking
worse and worse for you,
isn’t it, Jill?
[ Booth ]
Look, Jill Roberts
has motive and opportunity.
Hell, she even
got her promotion
courtesy of Rebecca’s death.
I believe our killer
acted on impulse
and obsession.
Jill Roberts is methodical
and calculating.
Okay.
You’re saying that she’s innocent
because her desk is neat?
No, I’m saying that Jill is only
aggressive professionally.
She didn’t try to hide
her feelings.
She seemed genuinely upset
about Rebecca’s death.
Hodgins identified
the fiber that was under
the victim’s fingernails.
Some kind of a nylon, okay?
This scarf probably matches it.
No, see, this is wool.
This is South American vicuna.
It’s very expensive.
What?
It’s not a crime to
appreciate nice things.
Okay. Doesn’t mean that
she’s not the murderer, okay?
It just means that
she didn’t use this.
I think you’re reaching,
Booth.
[ Brennan] Our assumption was
that the victim was strangled
at the top of the stairs...
and then tossed over the railing.
But Finn and I tried that
every possible way.
The yellow fractures
show the injuries
from the simulated falls,
and the red show
the actual fractures
to your victim.
[Finn ] We couldn’t match
the same fracture pattern
that we found.
What if the body dropped
at a 90—degree angle?
Well, how could that be possible
if she was thrown over the side?
It wouldn’t.
The calcaneal fractures
indicate that her feet
hit the ground first...
and absorbed
most of the impact.
So if I adjust
the direction of her body...
and adjust
for the dead weight.
Add a ligature
around her neck.
Well, I’ll be damned.
She was hanged
over that rail.
And then cut down
after she died.
Hairline fracturing
matches.
But the victim’s neck
wasn’t broken.
Wouldn’t your neck break
if you were hanged?
It depends on the length
of the ligature.
And if the noose was
wide enough, like so,
it wouldn’t break
Rebecca’s neck.
But...
it would cause
tremendous impact
to the jawline.
Look.
What are those?
Three small nicks on
the anteroinferior aspect
of the mandible.
Uniform and equidistant.
Small spikes.
This could tell us
how she was strangled.
[Finn ] And by what.
thave
Dr. Hodgins swab.
[Angela ]
They do seem to be spikes.
Like maybe from a bracelet.
Like a punk would wear.
Exactly.
So you think the victim was
struck in the throat by someone
wearing a bracelet?
Impossible.
There would be scraping,
as well as the indentations.
These marks were made
by applying
consistent pressure.
Got it!
So, I swabbed
Rebecca’s mandible.
I found dander.
— Dander, like from a dog?
— Yeah, exactly.
It’s a dog collar.
[Hodgins]
Mm—hmm.
Angie, can you call up
the file that I sent?
— So, I even found the breed.
— It was a leopard hound.
Yeah. lt’s a Catahoula leopard hound,
to be exact. How did you—
That look familiar?
What are you doing
with lris’s collar?
We got a search warrant
for your home.
I’m telling you.
You’ve got quite
a shrine for your dog.
The purple velvet
matches perfectly...
with the fibers we found
under Rebecca’s fingernails.
Well, so?
She was her dog too.
[ Booth ] That’s true.
So where’s lris?
She... died.
— Before Rebecca was killed?
- Look, we know you had
a palimony agreement...
which gave you
joint custody of the dog.
How did the dog die?
Rebecca was always working,
so the dog that you loved
so much probably died
of neglect, am I right?
There’s a tribe in Southern India
that felt that a man’s animal
was a part of him.
Like his arm or his heart.
If another man
killed his animal,
he was put to death
in the same manner
as that animal.
Our F.B.|. shrink agrees.
lris was hanged, wasn’t she?
That’s why
you hanged Rebecca.
We found the grave
in your backyard.
We can dig up the dog,
and it’ll be easy to determine
cause of death.
I’ll do that.
Don’t.
Don’t what?
Don’t... dig up lris.
Please.
I went to pick her up...
one Saturday, and...
nobody answered the door,
so I went around back.
Rebecca was working,
like usual.
Sheleﬁlns
chained to the porch.
Who would leave a dog
tied up like that?
I told her
that I would take her.
But she said
the custody agreement
was a legal contract,
that the law was the law.
Everything always
went back to that
stupid show.
lris was—
She was more than
an agreement.
She was all I had left.
And there she was,
hanging off
the patio railing...
dangling by her collar.
Probably went after a squirrel—
[Sniffles ] or something.
I couldn’t... let Rebecca
get away with that.
That’s what the law
is all about, right?
.l‘./‘ [Alt Rock]
[ lnhales ]
[ Woman]
,r /n the hearts of men J
,r /n the arms of mothers ,r
,r /n the parts we p/ay,r
,r To con Vince others ,r
,r We know what we’re d0ing,r
,r We ’re doing it right ,r
J May have written books
on the sub/ecu
,r But then you may still
be surprised .l‘./‘
[ Objects Clattering ]
Listen, you guys, I thought
you were here to do an article.
You know, my assistant never
would have set up this meeting
for a tasting...
if my team hadn’t
tasted it first.
Especially if you want me
involved in the marketing.
Come on, you guys.
Get that food up.
You’re right, ma’am.
Please accept our apologies.
Okay, uh, but they
do not have your palate,
and we could not let you
miss an opportunity
like this.
That’s sweet,
but you need to
talk to my staff.
Come on. Let’s go! Let’s go!
You’re right, ma’am. Okay?
We’re sorry for—
Okay, what you can’t see is
that he is actually the best of
what this country has to offer.
Did he kill bin Laden?
Wow, you are a tough sell.
Taste it.
Relax, it’s just a hot sauce
we’re talking about.
No, it’s not
just a hot sauce.
My granny made this sauce,
and she took the recipe
with her to her grave.
Look me in the eye, kid.
Look me in the eye
and tell me...
that you think this is
the most amazing hot sauce
I’ll ever taste...
and I should make
an exception.
Ma’am, I promise you,
to my everlasting surprise,
that this sauce tastes
every bit as good...
as when my grandmother
made it for me.
Now, men fought
for this sauce.
And l-l ain’t proud to say it,
but my cousin lost his hand
because of it.
All right,
give me a taste.
Notbad.
All right, 60 me, 40 you,
and we’ll market it
with my name, my logo.
Maybe we’ll make
a little bit of money.
Please,
we’re gonna be rich.
80/20, our favor, and...
it’s called
“Opie and Thurston’s Hot Sauce.”
Okay.
I got to hand it to you,
Bones, you always
find a way to amaze me.
I’m proud of you.
Solving this case
was a group effort.
But I am the most valuable,
so thank you.
No, I meant I’m proud of you
for not losing your cool
with the preschool director...
and Emma’s mom.
Well,
when it comes to settling conflicts,
it’s always better to be rational.
And the abundance
of forensic evidence
against Christine...
was clearly tainted
by multiple sources.
Yeah, but the part where
it became the OJ. trial
was a bit much.
But it worked.
Yeah.
You know, Christine,
she’s gonna misbehave again.
She’s gonna break curfew.
She’s gonna have
a cigarette or two.
She’s probably gonna
skip school.
I know.
It’s a natural part of maturing.
Natural?
Yes.
Really?
Acceptable behavior
can only be learned...
through the experience
of unacceptable behavior.
- Why the big change of heart?
- I haven’t changed.
What’s that?
What?
On your neck.
Is that a bite mark?
Nothing.
Christine bit you.
No—
Okay.
Christine got excited.
It doesn’t mean
that she bit Emma.
Better not
take her to day care
for a while.
I’ll just tell them you did it
while we were making love.
No, you won’t.
Well, it’s a believable
explanation, Booth.
[ Stammers ]
What? That I gave you a hickey?
No, I’m not
in eighth grade.
Ooh.
[Horn Honks]
Seriously?
You got to slow down.
Boy, she really did
lay into you
there, huh?
It is a bit sore.
Yeah.
What’s that mean?